you can't plan your performance when
you're working with the horse you know
the aux is just going to do its thing
and and you kind of have to let it do
its thing and and and respond to it when
I was interacting with the horse you
know you had a real sense of them just
how the horse was feeling in that moment
and you having to roll with that of
course there are times when their
mischievous there's one there's one
particular sequence in the film where
Captain Nichols is biting his lip with
sort of with fear and sadness at the
kilos he knows what's around the corner
and he's going up to Joey to sort of
give him strength and confidence and
Steven wanted us both to be in a
two-shot so that sort of his face was
here and my face was here and it would
have looked very neat in the frame and
when the horse playing Joey was still he
was getting quite bored so he kept
drooping his head like this and stealing
him shouting through the bullhorn Tom I
needed to get his head up we needed him
in the shots like I know Steven bees
boarding what's good asleep they never
mind just get his head up and then every
time I put his head up he would move
back out of the shot so it's just a very
difficult please behave because mr.
Spielberg's not happy right now and
finally I managed to get his head up
into this two shot so he was there and I
was here and he sank his teeth into my
shoulder and then stayed stock still I
thought to myself but at least you're in
the right place ah you're such a sweet
boy and I remembered that I remember I
swear looking into his eyes the horses
smiling it was all real except for the
bullets in the guns I'm pleased to say
otherwise we would have been stuffed
right Steven had said to me when we
first met you said Tom aight i don't
want to do this with doubles I want to
do this with you are you good are you
good to do this and I was just so
excited and benedict and Patrick and I
undertook five weeks of training at a
stud farm outside London where we were
drilled and
essentially like soldiers every single
day learning first of all basic
horsemanship learning how to put saddles
and bridles and reigns and then slowly
learning and the signals and the
sensitivity that you need with a horse
because it's not a motorbike it's a
living breathing animal I think it was
the middle of August in 2010 and we shot
it and it was my first day and I was the
front of this line and the camera was
suspended on a mechanical crane in the
back of a four-by-four called a Russian
armed and I was having to chase the
truck essentially but stay within 10
feet of the lens otherwise I'd be out of
focus at the same time tearing across
his open field at 40 miles an hour with
a hundred twenty horses behind me and a
hundred and twenty stunt men screaming
at the top of their lungs crying hell
fury and the thumb of
atvs ringing in my ears
I got to the other side of the field
there were tears streaming down my face
I was excited I was terrified it was I'm
sure partly to do with the wind but it
was one of the most powerful feelings
I've ever experienced and I was so lucky
that I got to bottle the excitement
knowing that I was completely safe and
at the other end of the field do going
to stop come back and do it again and
there was a cup of tea waiting for me
you know in the catering 10